---
title: Markdown
sidebar_position: 4
---

## Parser

Markdown is rendered using the [remarkable
parser](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/remarkable).

## Front matter

website-generator supports Markdown with front-matter written in
[TOML](https://toml.io) using
[gray-matter](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/gray-matter/). Only front-matter
defined by the `+++` delimiter is supported.

Any front-matter within Markdown is available for use within templates under a
`page` variable (see [Template
variables](/website-generator/templates/#template-variables)).

Additionaly, there are front-matter options that allow website-generator to
perform advanced tasks during the build process.

### `toc`

The `toc` front-matter generates a table of contents (in Markdown) for the
section or page to render:

```markdown
+++
toc: true
+++
```

Add the following Handlebars block to a section or page template to display the
table of contents:

```
{{#if page.toc}}
  <h2>Table of contents</h2>
  {{&page.toc}}
{{/if}}
```

For example, the following Markdown:

```markdown
+++
toc: true
+++

## Heading
Content

### Subheading
Content

## Another heading
Content
```

&hellip;will update the `page.toc` variable to be:

```
1. [Heading](#heading)
    - [Subheading](#subheading)
2. [Another heading](#another-heading)
```

The table of contents is generated by the
[`markdown-toc`](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/markdown-toc) library.

### `url`

The `url` front-matter overrides the default output URL for a section or page:

```markdown
+++
url: custom-url
+++
```

The value of `url` will rename the directory relative to the section or page.

:::warning
URL overrides are in an experimental stage. They will work correctly when used
at a root section level but multiple, nested URL overrides may produce
unexpected results.
:::

If the following URL override is defined in `/content/section/_index.md`:

```markdown
+++
url: override
+++
```

&hellip;the output folder structure will be `build/override/index.html` instead
of `build/section/index.html`.

If there are other pages and assets such as `content/section/page.md` and
`content/section/asset.jpg`, they will also be output to `build/override/`.

Use a single forward slash (`/`) to remove a directory altogether:

```markdown
+++
url: /
+++
```

This would make the output URL for `content/section/_index.md` become
`build/index.html`, which is useful for organising content within a folder but
rendering the HTML output outside of that folder, e.g. storing all blog posts
within `content/blog` and using the URL override of `/` to make all blog posts
available at the root of the website, without `blog` in the URL.

## Shortcodes

Markdown files in website-generator also support shortcodes, which are
defined in the `shortcodes` directory (see [Shortcodes](#shortcodes)).

Shortcodes are entirely user-defined (website-generator does not come with any
set by default) and are used to extend Markdown to create reusable snippets of
patterns and logic.

An example of a Markdown shortcode in website-generator is:

```markdown
Content outside of a shortcode

An inline shortcode:
{{%inline-shortcode/%}}

A block shortcode, which accepts its own Markdown content:
{{%block-shortcode%}}
This content will be available in the block shortcode.
{{%/block-shortcode%}}
```
